
Quaid-e-Azam
Baba-i-Qaum
Muhammad Ali Jinnah
محمد علی جناح
A view of Jinnah's face late in life
Jinnah in 1945
1st Governor-General of Pakistan
In office
14 August 1947 – 11 September 1948
Monarch	George VI
Prime Minister	Liaquat Ali Khan
Preceded by	Position established
Succeeded by	Khawaja Nazimuddin
Speaker of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan
In office
11 August 1947 – 11 September 1948
Deputy	Maulvi Tamizuddin Khan
Preceded by	Position established
Succeeded by	Maulvi Tamizuddin Khan
President of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan
In office
11 August 1947 – 11 September 1948
Deputy	Liaquat Ali Khan
Preceded by	Office created
Succeeded by	Office abolished
Personal details
Born	Mahomedali Jinnahbhai
25 December 1876
Karachi, Bombay Presidency, British India
(present-day Sindh, Pakistan)
Died	11 September 1948 (aged 71)
Karachi, Federal Capital Territory, Pakistan
(present-day Sindh, Pakistan)
Cause of death	Tuberculosis
Resting place	Mazar-e-Quaid, Karachi, Sindh
Nationality	British Indian (1876–1947)
Pakistani (1947–1948)
Political party	Muslim League (1947–1948)
Other political
affiliations	Indian National Congress (1906–1920)
All-India Muslim League (1913–1947)
Spouse(s)	Emibai Jinnah
​
​(m. 1892; died 1893)​
Rattanbai Petit
​
​(m. 1918; died 1929)​
Relations	See Jinnah family
Children	Dina Wadia
Parents	
Jinnahbhai Poonja (father)
Mithibai Jinnah (mother)
Alma mater	Lincoln's Inn
Profession	
BarristerPolitician
Signature	
Jinnah1945c.jpg	
This article is part of 
a series about
Muhammad Ali Jinnah
Jinnah family Early life Caucus Case Political career Birthplace House
Governor-General of Pakistan
14 August 1947 – 11 September 1948

Political views
11 August Speech Fourteen Points of Jinnah Unity, Faith, Discipline Two nation theory
Parties

Indian National Congress All-India Muslim League Pakistan Muslim League
Tributes

Mazar-e-Quaid List of things named after Jinnah
State emblem of Pakistan.svg

Gallery: Picture, Sound, Video
vte
Muhammad Ali Jinnah (Urdu pronunciation: [moɦəmːəd̪ əliː d͡ʒɪnːɑːɦ], Gujarati pronunciation: [məɦ(ə)məd̪ əli d͡ʒʱiɽ̃ɑ]; born Mahomedali Jinnahbhai; 25 December 1876 – 11 September 1948) was a barrister, politician and the founder of Pakistan.[1] Jinnah served as the leader of the All-India Muslim League from 1913 until the inception of Pakistan on 14 August 1947, and then as the Dominion of Pakistan's first governor-general until his death. He is revered in Pakistan as the Quaid-i-Azam ("Great Leader") and Baba-i-Qaum ("Father of the Nation"). His birthday is observed as a national holiday in Pakistan.

Born at Wazir Mansion in Karachi, Jinnah was trained as a barrister at Lincoln's Inn in London, England. Upon his return to India, he enrolled at the Bombay High Court, and took an interest in national politics, which eventually replaced his legal practice. Jinnah rose to prominence in the Indian National Congress in the first two decades of the 20th century. In these early years of his political career, Jinnah advocated Hindu–Muslim unity, helping to shape the 1916 Lucknow Pact between the Congress and the All-India Muslim League, in which Jinnah had also become prominent. Jinnah became a key leader in the All-India Home Rule League, and proposed a fourteen-point constitutional reform plan to safeguard the political rights of Muslims in the Indian subcontinent. In 1920, however, Jinnah resigned from the Congress when it agreed to follow a campaign of satyagraha, which he regarded as political anarchy.

By 1940, Jinnah had come to believe that the Muslims of the subcontinent should have their own state to avoid the possible marginalised status they may gain in an independent Hindu–Muslim state. In that year, the Muslim League, led by Jinnah, passed the Lahore Resolution, demanding a separate nation for Indian Muslims. During the Second World War, the League gained strength while leaders of the Congress were imprisoned, and in the provincial elections held shortly after the war, it won most of the seats reserved for Muslims. Ultimately, the Congress and the Muslim League could not reach a power-sharing formula that would allow the entirety of British India to be united as a single state following independence, leading all parties to agree instead to the independence of a predominantly Hindu India, and for a Muslim-majority state of Pakistan.

As the first Governor-General of Pakistan, Jinnah worked to establish the new nation's government and policies, and to aid the millions of Muslim migrants who had emigrated from neighbouring India to Pakistan after the two states' independence, personally supervising the establishment of refugee camps. Jinnah died at age 71 in September 1948, just over a year after Pakistan gained independence from the United Kingdom. He left a deep and respected legacy in Pakistan. Innumerable streets, roads and localities in the world are named after Jinnah. Several universities and public buildings in Pakistan bear Jinnah's name. According to his biographer, Stanley Wolpert, Jinnah remains Pakistan's greatest leader.